# Monopoly

**Game Instructions**
This project models the board game monopoly. Monopoly is a board game that can have up to 8 players, where the goal of the game is to travel around the board and buy properties as you land on them. If a property you land on is owned by someone else then you have to pay that player an amount equal to the rent of that property. If a player runs out of money and does not have enough properties to mortgage to go above debt, then they have lost the game and are declared bankrupt. When only one player remains they are the winner.

The board of monopoly consists of 40 different spaces. The four corners of the board have special spaces, these spaces are called GO, JAIL, FREE PARKING, and GO TO JAIL. The GO square is where players start out and each time they pass go, players are awarded $200. If a player rolls onto the JAIL square then they are simply visiting, but if they land on the GO TO JAIL square, or get sent to jail by another means, then they are sent to JAIL and must stay there for 3 turns unless they either roll double while they are in jail, or if they pay a $50 fine. Finally, there is the FREE PARKING square, when a player lands on this square they earn all of the money that has been payed for fines, taxes, or fees since the last player landed on FREE PARKING. The rest of the board is made up of different properties and several specialty squares. Every property is divided into a color group consisting of 2 to 3 properties each and there two color groups on each side of the board. If a player owns all properties belonging to that color, then they have a "monopoly" on that color and can buy houses and hotels to increase the price of that properties rent. There are four railroads on the board, one of each side, and the price of rent is based on how many railroads that player owns. There are also two utilities called "Water Works" and "Electric Company", whose rent's are determined by 4 times the dice number the player rolled to land on that property, if the owner has one utility, or 10 times, if the owner has both utilities. There are two tax squares where the player has to pay money to the bank when they land on that space. Finally, there are chance spaces and community chest spaces. Whenever a player lands on one of these spaces they must draw a card from the corresponding deck. The cards from these decks can do a variety of things most commonly giving or taking money from the player, but they can also move the player to a different space on the board. The chance cards can send you to different properties or railroads, and both sets of cards can send you to JAIL or to GO. Both decks also have a "Get Out of Jail Free" card which allows the player to leave jail immediately.

Each player starts off with $1500 and must roll 2 dice on their turn to determine how many spaces they move on the board. If a player rolls a double then they are allowed to roll again after they are finished with the first property they landed on. A player can continue to roll everytime they roll doubles until they roll three doubles in a single turn. When this happens that player is immediately sent to jail for speeding. On their turn a player can buy the property they land on (if it is unowned), buy a house/hotel for a property (if they own all properties of that color), mortgage a property they own, trade with other players, and auction off the property they landed on if they don't want to buy it.

**Rule Changes**
